---
title: "Unit 3: Activity 1"
date: 2023-06-26T14:56:35-06:00
draft: false
---

## What is a Web Site?

##### Summary

This activity will demonstrate how websites function at a basic level. You will create a simple webpage that is generated with ChatGPT.

##### Approximate Time to Complete

90 minutes

##### Website Structure

When you access a website, the files are stored in a way that the computer can understand and know where to find each file. 

Try the following prompt with ChatGPT:

`Tell me simply how website's files are organized?`

##### Index.html file 

In the root directory there is a file called index.html that exsists for almost every website. Ask ChatGPT about it with the  prompt below. 

`What is the importance of the index.html file?`

Let's create one to see what the code looks like. Use this prompt.

`show me a basic index.html`

Look at the code to see how it is organized.

##### Other elements of a website

The HTML on its own, acts as a backbone to a website. It can give us a static page to veiw content but not in the best way. 
To make the page more interactive and pretty, it links to other sources to generate the page. 

Ask ChatGPT:

`how does the index.html file link to other files?`

To start building our own website, we will just use HTML, but eventually we will use ChatGPT to generate more complex sites.

##### Creating HTML

Like we've seen, we can use ChatGPT to build some basic HTML code. Think of a prompt to ask ChatGPT that will generate some HTML code. 

Create a new file called mywebsite.html in VS code. Take the code that ChatGPT gave you and paste it into this file.

##### Viewing the file 

Browsers, such as Chrome or Safari, are built to run a couple different languages straight from the browser. 

`What different languages can I run in my browser?`

We can see that HTML can be run from our brower. Take your mywebsite.html file and view it in your browser.

It's nothing fancy, but it is the base for how websites are created.

##### Deliverable

Use ChatGPT to help you create a simple index.html page (it should be called index.html). Once you have finished the assignment, submit the index.html file through Canvas. 
