---
title: "Unit 2: Activity 2"
date: 2023-06-26T14:56:35-06:00
draft: false
---

## Building a Web Site

##### Summary

Websites use HTML along with JavaScript and CSS to make them dynamic. This activity will show how to create linked files to include JavaScript on a webpage to make it responsive and interactive.

##### Approximate Time to Complete

90 minutes

##### Different ways to include JavaScript into a website

Here are the ways we can add JavaScript to our website. 
 * Write JavaScript code in our HTML (This is called embedding)
 * Create a separate JavaScript file that links to the HTML file

 We are going to use the second one because it increases organization. Give ChatGPT the following guide line.

 `For all future responses, separate the HTML and JavaScript files`


##### Organizing files 

When we link our files together, the computer needs to know where to find the files. For this reason, when you create a website, make a new folder that will hold your index.html file, along with your JavaScript folder. 

Also, now the HTML page will need to know where to find the JavaScript. This will use a <script> tag that chatGPT will set up for you, however you need to be sure to name the JavaScript file just like ChatGPT says. 

##### Using JavaScript with HTML

You've already seen basic HTML and used it to create a webpage. Now, we're going to add JavaScript to make a page that can do more than display static content. Ask ChatGPT to create an HTML and JavaScript project that will display a persons age if I give it the year they were born. 

Using the file structure talked about above

* Create a new folder in VS code called ageGenerator
* Create a new file in the folder called index.html and paste ChatGPTs HTML code into it
* Create another new file in the folder named the same as what ChatGPT has it named

Now, just as before, you can open the index.html file in your browser and test it out!

##### What can JavaScript do?

JavaScript can add a lot of different things to a website, learn breifly about 10 things you can add to a website with JavaScript using ChatGPT.

##### Deliverable

Use ChatGPT to create a simple webpage that adds two numbers together. It should use seprate HTML and JavaScript files. Turn in the files for your website on Canvas once you have finished. 