---
title: "Unit 1: Activity 1"
date: 2023-06-26T14:56:35-06:00
draft: false
---

## Installation

##### Summary

This activity will guide you through installation of some prerequisite software that will be required for our course.

- Visual Studio Code
- Node.js
- ChatGPT Account

##### Approximate Time to Complete

30 minutes

##### Visual Studio Code

Visual Studio Code (VSCode) is an industry standard text editor. It is used by software engineers, data scientists, and web developers to create software and analyze data.

Go to [the VSCode website](https://code.visualstudio.com) to download and install VSCode.

##### Node.js

Node.js will allow us to run JavaScript code on our computers without a web browser. It can be downloaded [here](https://nodejs.org). You will want to download the `LTS` version.

##### ChatGPT

ChatGPT is a Generative AI platform that we will use heavily in this course. Go to [chat.openai.com](http://chat.openai.com) and create an account if you don't already have one.

### Deliverable

Once you have installed the required software, open VSCode. You will need to open a new terminal window to check if Node.js is installed properly. You can select `Terminal` in the top menu bar, then click `New Terminal`.

When the terminal window shows up, type `node --version` and hit enter.

Take a screenshot of your your node version, as printed on the terminal. Submit this screenshot to Canvas.

If you are unable see the version of Node.js installed, there was a problem with your installation.
