---
title: "Unit 2: Activity 1"
date: 2023-06-26T14:56:35-06:00
draft: false
---

## Generative AI

##### Summary

This activity will show you the basic capabilities of Generative AI. Generative AI uses LLMs (Large Language Models) to take input and predict what the output should be. ChatGPT popularized this approach by providing a simple to use chat interface that gives the illusion that you are talking with the AI through text chat.

##### Approximate Time to Complete

90 minutes

##### Hello, World!

Open up ChatGPT and type the following in the prompt box:

`What is significant about the phrase Hello, World?`

##### Getting Instructions

Try this prompt:

`I would like to create a peanut and butter jelly sandwich. Please write detailed instructions for me`

##### Giving Feedback

ChatGPT will remember your previous requests, which means you can make edits to previous prompts in order to change the answers.

`I changed my mind, I would rather have Nutella than peanut butter.`

##### Explaining Concepts

ChatGPT can explain concepts at different levels so that it is easier to understand.

`Why did the dinosaurs go extinct?`

`Explain that to me like I'm a 5 year old?`

##### Generating Questions

Sometimes it is hard to know which questions need to be asked when you don't know a lot about a topic. ChatGPT can generate a list of questions for you about topics.

`I want to learn JavaScript, but I don't know where to start. What questions do I need to ask?`

---

### Limitations

##### Internet Searches

ChatGPT does not search the internet for answers.

`Search the internet for the best prices on TVs`

##### Current Affairs

`What are the most interesting current world affairs?`

##### Sensitive Topics

A prompt for this is not provided, but ChatGPT does not give responses for sensitive topics.

##### Hallucinations

ChatGPT is built to act as if it is the authority on all subjects. However, it is wrong fairly often, even though it thinks it is correct. This is called a _hallucination_.

---

### Deliverable

Think of a topic that you are curious about, but don't know anything about. Your goal is to become an expert on this topic in 30 minutes. Use the prompts given to you in the above activity as an example to find out as much information about the topic as possible.

Make sure you have a conversation with ChatGPT. If there is something it says that you don't understand, tell it to explain it in a different way to help your understanding.

Once you are done, please submit a single page report on the topic. The report _must_ be written by you, because you are the expert on your chosen topic.
