---
title: "Unit 2: Activity 2"
date: 2023-06-26T14:56:35-06:00
draft: false
---

## Programming with Generative AI

##### Summary

Not only is Generative AI good at producing answers to questions, it can also write code in most programming languages. This activity will show you several different prompts that you can use to generate code for specific tasks. At the end of the activity, you will be required to solve a problem by generating your own prompt.

##### Approximate Time to Complete

90 minutes

##### Hello, World! in JavaScript

Open ChatGPT and enter the following prompt:

`Write a hello world program in JavaScript that runs in Node.js. Also, show me how I can run this program with Node.js`

##### Adding context

ChatGPT remembers the information that you give it. For example, we can make sure that it will _always_ write JavaScript programs to be run with Node.js instead of in a web browser.

`From now on, write all JavaScript so that it can be run from a terminal with Node.js`

This prompt will make ChatGPT remember that you would like to have all of your JavaScript code examples displayed in a form runnable by Node.js.

##### Add two numbers

Try this prompt

`Write me a JavaScript program that will add two numbers together and display the output`

Then

`Make sure that I can pass those parameters as arguments, instead of local variables`

Using the examples provided by ChatGPT, you should do the following:

- In VSCode, create a file called `numbers.js` and copy/paste the code into the file
- You will then run the code with a command that looks like this: `node numbers.js 2 2`. The resulting output should be `4`.

##### Use ChatGPT to explain concepts

Please run through each of the following prompts:

`From now on, answer all questions with example code in JavaScript`
`What is a variable?`
`What is a function?`
`What are parameters?`
`What is an if statement?`

##### Deliverable

Using ChatGPT, write a simple program that will do different math operations on two values. It should support the following:

- addition
- subtraction
- multiplication
- division
- exponent

Create a file called `math.js` to put your code into. Once you have completed the assignment, upload a copy of it to Canvas.
